README.md, before:

# URL Shortener SaaS

A production-ready URL Shortener SaaS built with Pulumi TypeScript, AWS Lambda, DynamoDB, API Gateway, CloudFront, and React.

## Live Demo

**CloudFront URL**: https://d1232drths1aav.cloudfront.net

## Features

- **URL Shortening**: Create short URLs with auto-generated or custom aliases
- **Click Tracking**: Real-time analytics for each shortened URL
- **Advanced Analytics**: Comprehensive analytics dashboard with browser, device, country, and referrer breakdowns
- **Modern Frontend**: React SPA with responsive design and dark mode support
- **Serverless Backend**: AWS Lambda functions with DynamoDB storage
- **Global CDN**: CloudFront distribution for fast, secure access worldwide

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐     ┌─────────────────┐     ┌─────────────────┐
│   CloudFront    │────▶│   S3 Bucket     │     │   DynamoDB      │
│   Distribution  │     │   (Frontend)    │     │   Table         │
└────────┬────────┘     └─────────────────┘     └────────▲────────┘
         │                                               │
         │ /api/*                                        │
         ▼                                               │
┌─────────────────┐     ┌─────────────────┐             │
│   API Gateway   │────▶│ Lambda Functions│─────────────┘
│   REST API      │     │ (Node.js 20)    │
└─────────────────┘     └─────────────────┘
```

## Tech Stack

### Infrastructure (Pulumi TypeScript)
- AWS DynamoDB (PAY_PER_REQUEST billing)
- AWS Lambda (Node.js 20 runtime)
- AWS API Gateway (REST API with CORS)
- AWS S3 (Static website hosting)
- AWS CloudFront (HTTPS CDN)
- Pulumi ESC for secrets management

### Frontend (React + Vite)
- React 19 with TypeScript
- React Router for navigation
- Framer Motion for animations
- CSS Modules for styling
- Responsive design with dark mode

### Backend (AWS Lambda)
- TypeScript compiled with esbuild
- AWS SDK v3 for DynamoDB
- RESTful API design

## API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| POST | /api/shorten | Create a short URL |
| GET | /api/{shortCode} | Redirect to original URL (301) |
| GET | /api/stats/{shortCode} | Get URL statistics |
| GET | /api/urls | List all URLs |
| DELETE | /api/{shortCode} | Delete a URL |
| GET | /api/analytics/overview | Get aggregated analytics across all URLs |
| GET | /api/analytics/{shortCode} | Get detailed analytics for a specific URL |

### Analytics Query Parameters

The analytics endpoints support the following query parameters:

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
|-----------|------|---------|-------------|
| from | ISO 8601 date | 7 days ago | Start of date range |
| to | ISO 8601 date | now | End of date range |
| granularity | hour/day/week | day | Timeline aggregation granularity |
| limit | number | 10 | Number of top URLs to return (overview only) |

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >= 18
- [Pulumi CLI](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/install/) >= 3
- AWS credentials configured

## Getting Started

1. **Clone the repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/dirien/url-shortener-saas.git
   cd url-shortener-saas
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm install
   cd frontend && npm install && cd ..
   cd lambda && npm install && cd ..
   ```

3. **Build the frontend**:
   ```bash
   cd frontend && npm run build && cd ..
   ```

4. **Build Lambda functions**:
   ```bash
   cd lambda && npm run build && cd ..
   ```

5. **Deploy with Pulumi**:
   ```bash
   pulumi up
   ```

## Testing

### Unit & Integration Tests
```bash
cd lambda && npm test
```

### Test Coverage
```bash
cd lambda && npm run test:coverage
```

### E2E Tests

E2E tests are defined in `e2e.md` and can be run using the `agent-browser` CLI tool:

```bash
# Install agent-browser
npm install -g agent-browser

# Run tests manually following prompts in e2e.md
agent-browser open https://d1232drths1aav.cloudfront.net
agent-browser snapshot -i
# ... follow test steps
```

## Project Structure

```
url-shortener/
├── index.ts              # Pulumi infrastructure code
├── Pulumi.yaml           # Pulumi project configuration
├── frontend/             # React frontend application
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── pages/        # Landing, Dashboard, Analytics, Docs pages
│   │   ├── components/   # Header, Footer components
│   │   ├── utils/        # API client
│   │   └── index.css     # Global styles
│   └── package.json
├── lambda/               # AWS Lambda functions
│   ├── shorten.ts        # Create short URL
│   ├── redirect.ts       # Redirect handler with analytics tracking
│   ├── stats.ts          # Get URL statistics
│   ├── list.ts           # List all URLs
│   ├── delete.ts         # Delete URL
│   ├── analytics.ts      # Analytics aggregation handler
│   ├── utils.ts          # Shared utilities
│   ├── utils.test.ts     # Unit tests
│   ├── handlers.test.ts  # Integration tests
│   ├── dist/             # Compiled JavaScript (generated)
│   └── package.json
├── e2e.md                # E2E test prompts
├── screenshots/          # E2E test screenshots
└── package.json
```

## Cleanup

To destroy all AWS resources:
```bash
pulumi destroy
```

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Remove hardcoded CloudFront URLs from documentation
Replace hardcoded CloudFront and API URLs with placeholders since the
infrastructure has been destroyed. Users should now deploy the stack
and use the URLs from the Pulumi output.

README.md, after:

# URL Shortener SaaS

A production-ready URL Shortener SaaS built with Pulumi TypeScript, AWS Lambda, DynamoDB, API Gateway, CloudFront, and React.

## Features

- **URL Shortening**: Create short URLs with auto-generated or custom aliases
- **Click Tracking**: Real-time analytics for each shortened URL
- **Advanced Analytics**: Comprehensive analytics dashboard with browser, device, country, and referrer breakdowns
- **Modern Frontend**: React SPA with responsive design and dark mode support
- **Serverless Backend**: AWS Lambda functions with DynamoDB storage
- **Global CDN**: CloudFront distribution for fast, secure access worldwide

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐     ┌─────────────────┐     ┌─────────────────┐
│   CloudFront    │────▶│   S3 Bucket     │     │   DynamoDB      │
│   Distribution  │     │   (Frontend)    │     │   Table         │
└────────┬────────┘     └─────────────────┘     └────────▲────────┘
         │                                               │
         │ /api/*                                        │
         ▼                                               │
┌─────────────────┐     ┌─────────────────┐             │
│   API Gateway   │────▶│ Lambda Functions│─────────────┘
│   REST API      │     │ (Node.js 20)    │
└─────────────────┘     └─────────────────┘
```

## Tech Stack

### Infrastructure (Pulumi TypeScript)
- AWS DynamoDB (PAY_PER_REQUEST billing)
- AWS Lambda (Node.js 20 runtime)
- AWS API Gateway (REST API with CORS)
- AWS S3 (Static website hosting)
- AWS CloudFront (HTTPS CDN)
- Pulumi ESC for secrets management

### Frontend (React + Vite)
- React 19 with TypeScript
- React Router for navigation
- Framer Motion for animations
- CSS Modules for styling
- Responsive design with dark mode

### Backend (AWS Lambda)
- TypeScript compiled with esbuild
- AWS SDK v3 for DynamoDB
- RESTful API design

## API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| POST | /api/shorten | Create a short URL |
| GET | /api/{shortCode} | Redirect to original URL (301) |
| GET | /api/stats/{shortCode} | Get URL statistics |
| GET | /api/urls | List all URLs |
| DELETE | /api/{shortCode} | Delete a URL |
| GET | /api/analytics/overview | Get aggregated analytics across all URLs |
| GET | /api/analytics/{shortCode} | Get detailed analytics for a specific URL |

### Analytics Query Parameters

The analytics endpoints support the following query parameters:

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
|-----------|------|---------|-------------|
| from | ISO 8601 date | 7 days ago | Start of date range |
| to | ISO 8601 date | now | End of date range |
| granularity | hour/day/week | day | Timeline aggregation granularity |
| limit | number | 10 | Number of top URLs to return (overview only) |

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >= 18
- [Pulumi CLI](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/install/) >= 3
- AWS credentials configured

## Getting Started

1. **Clone the repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/dirien/url-shortener-saas.git
   cd url-shortener-saas
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm install
   cd frontend && npm install && cd ..
   cd lambda && npm install && cd ..
   ```

3. **Build the frontend**:
   ```bash
   cd frontend && npm run build && cd ..
   ```

4. **Build Lambda functions**:
   ```bash
   cd lambda && npm run build && cd ..
   ```

5. **Deploy with Pulumi**:
   ```bash
   pulumi up
   ```

## Testing

### Unit & Integration Tests
```bash
cd lambda && npm test
```

### Test Coverage
```bash
cd lambda && npm run test:coverage
```

### E2E Tests

E2E tests are defined in `e2e.md` and can be run using the `agent-browser` CLI tool:

```bash
# Install agent-browser
npm install -g agent-browser

# Run tests manually following prompts in e2e.md
# Replace {CLOUDFRONT_URL} with the URL from `pulumi up` output
agent-browser open {CLOUDFRONT_URL}
agent-browser snapshot -i
# ... follow test steps
```

## Project Structure

```
url-shortener/
├── index.ts              # Pulumi infrastructure code
├── Pulumi.yaml           # Pulumi project configuration
├── frontend/             # React frontend application
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── pages/        # Landing, Dashboard, Analytics, Docs pages
│   │   ├── components/   # Header, Footer components
│   │   ├── utils/        # API client
│   │   └── index.css     # Global styles
│   └── package.json
├── lambda/               # AWS Lambda functions
│   ├── shorten.ts        # Create short URL
│   ├── redirect.ts       # Redirect handler with analytics tracking
│   ├── stats.ts          # Get URL statistics
│   ├── list.ts           # List all URLs
│   ├── delete.ts         # Delete URL
│   ├── analytics.ts      # Analytics aggregation handler
│   ├── utils.ts          # Shared utilities
│   ├── utils.test.ts     # Unit tests
│   ├── handlers.test.ts  # Integration tests
│   ├── dist/             # Compiled JavaScript (generated)
│   └── package.json
├── e2e.md                # E2E test prompts
├── screenshots/          # E2E test screenshots
└── package.json
```

## Cleanup

To destroy all AWS resources:
```bash
pulumi destroy
```

## License

MIT
